Sara/tec 115 primary branches documentation (#1680)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/deployment/primary-branch.md

---
slug: primary-branch
title: Set a primary branch
hide_title: true
description: Set your primary or default branch to ensure Semgrep full scans display accurate counts and deduplicated findings.
tags:
  - Core deployment
---

# Set a primary branch

A **primary branch** is the base or target branch for pull and merge requests. It is usually referred to as a **default branch** or **trunk** by your source code manager (SCM). Typical names for a primary branch include `dev`, `production`, or `develop`.

In many cases, Semgrep automatically detects primary branches. If you have projects (repositories) with unique primary branch names, you can set them through the Semgrep web app.

:::note
- This feature is in **private beta**. To request access, contact your Technical Account Manager or your Account Executive and let them know you'd like to join the primary branch beta.

> - Primary branches are set on a **per-project** basis. They cannot be set in bulk.

Reviewer: Not sure what the best practice here is, but I wonder if it's worth calling out that they can also do this via the public API?

Author: Hi @pangngan I was looking in https://semgrep.dev/api/v1/docs/ for the endpoint, but there were no relevant results for `default` or `primary` - any pointers here? A link would be helpful for the readers. 🙏

Reviewer: Yep, they can also set this via the PATCH endpoint here: https://semgrep.dev/api/v1/docs/#tag/Project/operation/semgrep_app.saas.handlers.repository.openapi_patch_project

Author: Thank you!

:::

A primary branch enables Semgrep to filter your findings by branch and to accurately deduplicate findings. The primary branch is also used to analyze the deployment of [secure guardrails](/secure-guardrails/secure-guardrails-in-semgrep) to your developers; findings fixed before they are merged into the primary branch reduces the overall production backlog.

## Find projects without a primary branch

Projects without primary branches have an orange information icon <span style={{color: 'orange'}}> <i class="fa-solid fa-circle-exclamation"></i></span> next to their name in the **Projects** page.

## Set a project's primary branch

1. In the Semgrep web app, click **Projects**.
1. Search for your project's name.
1. Click the **<i class="fa-solid fa-gear"></i> gear icon** to access the settings page for that project.

> 1. In the **Primary branch** section, click the drop-down box and select a branch.

Reviewer: I wonder if it's worth calling out with a `tip` that the dropdown will only show a list of scanned branches?

Author: I added it in the step, and I also added a prerequisite at the top (useful to use a header over a tip callout because our CSEs can link to the tidbit when sending to customers).

---
slug: primary-branch
title: Set a primary branch
hide_title: true
description: Set your primary or default branch to ensure Semgrep full scans display accurate counts and deduplicated findings.
tags:
  - Core deployment
---

# Set a primary branch

A **primary branch** is the base or target branch for pull and merge requests. It is usually referred to as a **default branch** or **trunk** by your source code manager (SCM). Typical names for a primary branch include `dev`, `production`, or `develop`.

> In many cases, Semgrep automatically detects primary branches when they first scan your project. If you have projects (repositories) with unique primary branch names, you can set them through the Semgrep web app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In many cases, Semgrep automatically detects primary branches when it first scans your project. If you have projects (repositories) with unique primary branch names, you can set them through the Semgrep web app.
```

Author: @khorne3 This was meant to be Semgrep doing the scan
